it's up to the matriarchs like Bonta to
lead their families to distant scattered
sources of food and water even in the so
called wet season the Kalahari remains
harsh and unforgiving the desert pans
are dotted far and wide across the
landscape linked by the web of elephant
highways
time and time again Mike witnesses their
remarkable ability as matriarchs choose
a route which bypasses empty water holes
but which leads unfailingly to full ones
didn't we keep the point of my work
every small pool is a lifeline
honey
this little elephant is only a few hours
old his mother would have given birth in
the middle of the desert so he may
already have walked many kilometers to
reach here it's the first water he's
ever seen
the stop at this pool will give him the
day or two he needs to find his feet
he's already socializing with members of
other herds and even the great old bulls
who come here
Mike believes that the little calf won't
forget this experience but the memory of
this water hole is now embedded in the
youngsters mind
[Applause]
but once this waters gone
the tiny calf has no option but to
follow his family for many kilometers to
the next path
you